Hi friends, so nice to see you back for today's meetup. If we haven't had a chance to meet yet
and this is your first meetup, I'm Rachel. I'm calling in from Boston today, actually at the
RStudio office in Seaport. It's so nice to meet you and to see so many familiar names joining
as well. Feel free to introduce yourselves through the chat window and say hello as well. I love
getting to see where people are calling in from all over the world and also to be able to see
people sharing helpful resources with each other over there in the chat as well. I host these
meetups every Tuesday at noon eastern time and they are all recorded and shared up to the RStudio
YouTube as well if you want to go check out past sessions too. I'll say this one will be, the
recording will be up immediately at the same exact YouTube live link, but this is a friendly meetup
environment for teams to share different use cases with each other and teach lessons learned.
Together we're all dedicated to making this an inclusive and open environment for everyone,
no matter your experience, industry, or background. You can add the whole calendar or individual
events to your own calendar with a link that I will show on the screen here right now.
For a heads up about next week, we'll be back here, same place, for a talk on beautiful reports
and presentations with Cordo, and the following week a talk on model monitors and alerting at
scale with RStudio Connect. Today we are so lucky to be joined by both Julia Silgi and Isabel
Zimmerman presenting on MLOps with Vetiver in Python and R. During the event you can ask questions
on YouTube live or LinkedIn, wherever you're watching from, and are also able to ask anonymous
questions as well through the short link that I will put up here on the screen.
And so we will try to answer as many questions as possible from there,
but with that I would love to pull Julia and Isabel up here on our virtual stage with me.
Hello, how are you doing? Doing well, how are you? Good, thank you for being here with us. I'm
excited to turn it over to you, and Isabel, I'll pull your screen on stage. There we go.
Awesome. Well, hello everyone. We are so excited to see you all here for the MLOps with Vetiver in
Python and R meetup today, and talking about beautiful Cordo presentations is next week.
This is a Cordo presentation. I love plugging that. It's my favorite thing.
And so who are we? I am Isabel Zimmerman. I am an open source MLOps software engineer here at R
Studio, and I'm joined here today with Julia Stilge, who is also an open source software
engineer writing great MLOps tools in R, and I write them in Python. But another important
question is who are you? So who's joining here today? We have a Slido poll question for you all.
What language does your team use for machine learning? So Julia and I have worked really hard
to make sure that Vetiver feels great for bilingual data science teams. So that's data
science teams that are writing in both R and Python, but it also feels like a great native
experience if you are just an R user or just a Python user. So if you're developing a model,
you can operationalize that model, and in fact we believe that you likely should operationalize
that model, which gives us a really big looming question of what is operationalization? What is MLOps?
And if you're here, you're probably on some sort of MLOps journey, whether you're just curious
about what it is, or maybe digging into tools. And the MLOps landscape looks a little bit like this.
There's a lot of pieces going around. Is it infrastructure? Is it analytics? Is it
open source? Are we looking at APIs? And it makes us feel sometimes a little bit like this.
But there is kind of a one-liner. Everyone finds MLOps a little differently, but the way that we
see MLOps is as a set of practices to deploy and maintain machine learning models in production
reliably and efficiently. All of those tools are helping you do this in some way. And MLOps is
not something you can pass off to your IT department. We believe that data scientists
should be owning part of this process. So there are great tools out there to help you through
that data science life cycle. We have another quick Slido poll for what packages are you guys
using the most for machine learning right now. We know there's great ways to collect data,
we know there's great ways to collect data, to understand and clean data. On the R side,
that's tools like the tidyverse or data table. On the Python side, it's maybe Suba or Pandas or
NumPy. Once your data is cleaned and understood, you are ready to train and evaluate a model.
Once again, on the R side, you're looking at tools like Carrot for tidy models,
or in Python, things like PyTorch or scikit-learn. But then you enter kind of the wild
west of MLOps. And it's sometimes hard to find, you know, MLOps open source tools that fit your
needs. And Zedifer is really well scoped into helping data scientists version, deploy, and
monitor their models. And we'll take a little bit of a closer look in what we mean when we
use those three verbs. So, MLOps is versioning. This is managing change in models. It's going to
help you avoid the pitfalls of, you know, model final, and then model final one, and then, like,
model final, it's actually this one. So, it helps you scale your model, but it also will help you
organize your models and share your models by giving them context, more robust versioning,
and a little bit of metadata. So, you can kind of manage, you know, your production versus your
staging environments. So, you make sure your models are well organized.
MLOps is deploying. And this is a loaded question in Slido we have for you.
Have you ever deployed a model? Deploying can mean different things to different people.
But it might have actually been something you've done before and didn't even realize it.
Whenever you're taking a model out of the environment that it's been trained in,
and you're putting it in some other computational environment, you can say that is deployment.
So, things like putting a model in a Shiny app are deploying. But we really believe that
stable models are models that are in REST APIs. So, this is an individual computational
environment that just hosts your model at an API endpoint. So, it is independent of maybe a
larger application. It makes it faster and easier and a little bit more robust to just host this
model by itself and not inside of an application. And MLOps is monitoring. This is tracking model
performance. So, if you are not monitoring your model, you might be immune to if your model is
performing poorly. And that's because models can fail silently. It can be at 0% accuracy and still
spitting out predictions left and right. So, you really have to be tracking this model performance
so you can tell when things are going wrong.
So, what does this look like when you're using FedEver?
So, we can see our data science life cycle over here. Once again, we know data scientists have
effective tools to do this half of the data science life cycle, but maybe need some more
support on the other half. So, we're going to start by building a model. We're going to load
in some environment variables, and we're going to make this model to predict what Scooby-Doo
episodes have a real monster and which ones have a fake monster. We're going to load in some data
in the arrow format, and we're going to do our preprocessing and fitting our model. And we're
going to put these two things together in a pipeline and deploy them as a whole. And the way
we're going to be able to deploy these models is using a deployable model object called a FedEver
model. Now, notice this is the first place that FedEvers come into their life cycle. So, you get
to use those same tools that you're very familiar with, and this is kind of just an extension of
your current workflow. So, this FedEver model will take in the pipeline. I'll give my model a name,
and then I'll feed it a little bit of my training data to kind of prime the API endpoint. That way,
when new data comes in, my API endpoint can check to make sure it looks the same way that the model
expects it to. So, next, we're going to version our model. And FedEver actually has a secret weapon
called Pins. And Pins is something that helps you create boards that you can write data but also
models to. And it will automatically version your model in a really robust way. So, we can see our
version right here. We've pinned this board to RS Connect or RStudio Connect, but this would just as
easily be board S3 or Azure or even just a local folder. And the rest of it pretty much looks the
exact same. So, when we write our model, we have a little prompt that says model cards provide a
framework for responsible reporting. Model cards are something that there have been a lot of
research on that have a really holistic view on deploying a model. Inside of FedEver, there is a
template that'll get you like 80% of the way to a model card. You can see inside this card, you get
to document things like metrics and evaluation data, but also things like maybe ethical
considerations or caveats and recommendations. So, you can really show your knowledge and all that
information that you've used and generated when you're making your model. So, we can generate our
model card template here. And now, we will deploy our model. It is versioned. It is ready to be
deployed. But before it's deployed somewhere else, we need to make sure it's working locally.
So, here we can use our FedEver API and set up our API and click run. And
we will see in the browser, all of this is automatically generated by FedEver to have a
visual documentation at your API endpoint. We can see the server. It's running locally. We get a little
bit of information of what kind of model it is, the name of the model, a health endpoint, and then
we get to the predict endpoint. So, we can try it here to make sure that this API is working as we
expect it to. Let's not look at the year zero, but maybe the year 2000. And this Scooby-Doo has an
IMDB rating of eight. And it's probably a fake monster in this Scooby-Doo episode.
But of course, this is not our end goal. Our end goal is not to have our model running on a local
machine, but somewhere else. So, this is looking at deploying this to RS Connect. So, FedEver has
a kind of one-liner here to deploy to Connect. We're feeding it in a Connect server, the board
that we've specified earlier, and the pin name that we just created. We can also specify a version
if we want this API linked to a single version to kind of quickly iterate on that version that
exists. So, I've already deployed this model. Let's just make a prediction from this that's
living up in our demo server cloud. We'll create a FedEver endpoint. And let's generate some new
episodes. And we'll predict with this model by feeding in the new episodes and the Connect endpoint.
So, this can really feel like it's a model that is inside your computational environment,
even though I'm connecting to something that's out on a cloud somewhere else. It's on a different
server. And this is doing the kind of DataFrame to JSON to API server to JSON back to DataFrame
feeling for you. So, you don't have to do any of the JSON gymnastics. And we can get these
predictions back in a DataFrame format. So, it feels really natural, even though this is not a
model that's even on this machine. Once this model is deployed, you're going to be continuing
to update some metrics. You're going to be collecting kind of the dates you're making
these predictions. So, we're going to read in some validation data that has, you know,
the date that the model was making these predictions. And we're going to feed this
into a Benefer.computeMetrics function. We'll give it the data, the date variable, a period,
and it'll do kind of a time series computation of the metrics so you can track these over time.
This is for the F1 score, but it could just as easily be accuracy or any metric set that is
available. Then we will take these Scooby metrics we have just created and use the
built-in plot function. It looks a little small since we only have these three data points,
or three years of data, and we're aggregating year over year. But you can make this as extensible
and as complex as you want, adding, you know, loads of data and multiple different metrics to track.
And I think with that, we have gone through the entire data science life cycle in just about
five, ten minutes. And this is what Benefer looks like in Python. So, I'm going to pass
this over to Julia to show you what it looks like in R.
Fantastic. Thank you so much for that, Isabel. That's such a great introduction to what it is
that we're talking about. And just to put this up here again, just to reiterate,
reiterates once more, where Benefer sits in the model, like what we'll call the MLOps cycle,
and what are the tasks that it does, like an underlying assumption or driving design
decision for Benefer is that these things on the right-hand side,
you have great open-source tools that you like to use for those. And it is over here on the
left-hand side that Benefer comes in and you can use to connect what you've already done here
through to that kind of MLOps task, like versioning your model, deploying your model,
and then monitoring your model. So, let's see what that looks like in R. I want to highlight
the name a little bit because I think it's a helpful metaphor. So, Benefer, if you're like
really into perfume or scented candles, you may have seen or heard the word Benefer as an
ingredient because it's a stabilizing ingredient in perfumery. It takes the more volatile fragrances,
stabilizes them so that your perfume can last a long time. So, in this analogy, your models are
these like more volatile, really valuable fragrances, and what Benefer does is stabilize
it so that you can deploy with confidence. So, let's look at the same data on Scooby-Doo episodes.
And here in R, we're going to load this Aero dataset. So, this – whoops. Let's make sure
I'm in the right place. There we go. Okay. So, this Scooby-Doo dataset is originally from
Tidy Tuesday, but we transformed it a little bit and saved it as an Aero file so that both on the
Python and the R side, we can read it in the same way. So, it has this thing we're going to predict
whether the monster is fake or real in a certain episode, the year that it aired, what the IDMDB
rating was, and then we've got the title in there as well so we can keep a track of that. So, this
kind of picture us here doing an EDA using some tool that you like, like Pandas or the Tidyverse.
Now, let's go – so, that's – you know, we just did some things over here in this understand
and clean the data. Now, let's move on to training and evaluating a model. So, here, I'm going to use
a support vector machine model. So, let's set up that support vector machine specification.
And now, I'm going to make a feature engineering recipe here. So, support vector machines,
it turns out, you have to do some data preprocessing to them. So, and then I'm going
to combine the feature preprocessing together with the model into a workflow and fit it to the data
that I have. So, what I want you to notice here is that I'm going to be able to – what I'm doing is
I'm using good statistical practices, treating my preprocessing together with my modeling,
and I can take that whole thing and move on to my MLOps tasks. So, again, from before everything
I've shown you so far, we want you to keep using the tools that you know and love, that you think
are a good fit for your particular use case. Now, what I'm going to do is I'm going to start
using Vetiver. So, just like on the Python side, you know, we read data in, maybe did some EDA,
trained a model, and now it's time for us to start going into the MLOps tasks. So,
the first thing that we'll do here is that we'll use Vetiver to create a deployable model object.
So, I will get this. It's not quite close to the end. I want you to notice what's printed out here
because the idea of, like, why? Why do I need to make a deployable model object?
It's because at the time of training your model, you have a lot of information about it. You know,
for example, whether it was a classification model or a regression model. You know, like,
what kind of computational engine you used to train it with. You know how many features there were
and what the names and data types were of those features that went into your model.
And the reason why you want to use Vetiver to create this kind of deployable model object
is that it is designed so that it collects and stores all the information you need to make
predictions in a new computational environment at training time. Because, you know, you have
all that information, let's store it in a nicely organized package bundle so that you can then
take it somewhere else. So, just like Isabel was saying that when, like, the good way to think
about have I deployed a model is have you taken a model that was in one computational environment
and put it somewhere else so that it can integrate with your IT infrastructure. So,
that's what this is getting ready here for us to do. All right. So, we have our ready-to-go model
object, deployable model object. And now I'm going to version slash publish slash share my
model. So, I'm going to use pins to do this. And I, right now, am going to, you can see from my
screen here that I've connected to our demo connect server. And I am going to write my
Vetiver model there. So, this is pins have support for many different kinds of infrastructures upon
which to version, share, publish models. So, just like on the Python side and the R side,
you can write to connect. You can write to S3 buckets, AWS S3 buckets. You can write to, like,
an Azure blob storage. You can write to a network drive if that's the way that your particular
organization works. The important thing is that the pinning works the same. And it allows you
this nice little bit of, you know, usability in terms of I need to get a version. I need to
store this in a versioned way on my, to keep my model somewhere that, like, is the appropriate
place for my particular infrastructure. So, I want to just highlight here, again, that I got
a little prompt that I get once per session about that reminding me to create a model card.
So, I am going to show you in R how you might go about doing that. So, if I go to say I want to
make a new R markdown, I've got a couple of things here that are Vetiver templates. So,
one of them is this model card. And what this does is, just like Isabel said, this can get you,
like, 80% of the way there to documenting your model with a model card. So, if you haven't heard
or read about model cards, this paper, I encourage you to look at it. This is really great. It
explains what they are. And what this does is it goes through, for example, things that can be
automated, like, hey, we know what kind of model this is. We know what version we're using. We can
automate those parts. And then it provides you an outline to the parts that take human
domain knowledge to be able to answer. So, like, what are the uses of this model?
Why did you choose the metric that you did? So, it allows you to walk through and do a
good job of documenting your model in an appropriate and specific way.
Great. Okay. So, we've versioned our model. We have thought about how we're going to document
our model. And now it's time for me to deploy the model as a REST API. So, here I am going to run
this locally where I am going to see, oh, right, look, I can create a REST API that's going to run
locally on my machine right here. So, this is running in this R session. Notice that my R
session is kind of busy right now because it's serving this API to me. And I can understand,
I can locally debug. It takes me this many lines, three lines of code to locally debug the model
to be able to see, like, what is it doing? Like, okay, I've got, you know, like, my health check
endpoint. And then I've got my prediction endpoint here. And I can interact with this.
So, let's say there was let's say it's the year 1990. And something has an IDMB rating of 8.3.
I can literally, like, interact with my model locally here. And I can, you know, like, I can
understand, like, what does it need to, like, what does it look like when I interact? Let's say I'll
do, you know, batch prediction. And it tells me, like, okay, both of those are fake. Both of those
are fake monsters. And it also, as I'm interacting with this, I get the curl, like, it shows me
the curl. So, think of this interactive documentation as a tool for you as the model
developer to be able to understand, debug, figure out how your model is working. And also as a tool
for collaborating with other people in your organization, data engineers, IT infrastructure
people, SREs. If anyone needs to know how do I interact with your model, you can show them. You
can show them directly here. So, I am going to stop this little local API that was running in
my R session. And then I'm going to talk about, okay, that's good for local debugging. How do I
get it from my computer into a new computational environment? Which is exactly what we, you know,
what we're talking about, what we want to do here. So, we have a, if you want to deploy your
models to Connect, we have a one-liner function that will take your, where you have stored your
model, which model it is, and it will, with that one function, deploy it to Connect. So, we have
support for this, for this like really smooth sort of push button, very simple kind of deployment
to Connect. We also have support for other, for deploying to other kinds of targets. Say you want
to deploy to SageMaker, you want to deploy on a different AWS way of serving things. You want to
deploy on Azure or some other target. Then what you're going to want to do is you're going to want
to learn, you're going to want to deploy using Docker. So, to make a Docker container for Vetiver,
you are going to want to first generate a plumber file. So, this is what the generated plumber files
look like. Like I, like we run this line right here and it makes a file that looks like this.
So, this file, you know, it is something that is editable by you if you have some sort of higher,
like more complex use case, but the default, you know, serves most people's use cases pretty well.
So, this gets generated here and then what I'll do is I will write here, let me delete this so
you can tell me, I can show you what it makes. So, let me delete the one that I did when I was
practicing. Okay, it's gone and let me come over here and I'm going to write my Docker file
here. So, it is, so what's happening right now is it's looking at the model V that I have,
this deployable model object. It's saying, okay, what packages do I need to install into the Docker
container to be able to make predictions? So, for example, this, just to give you like a little bit
of a, like a insight of like what does that mean, the packages that you might need. If you tuned
your model, you don't need the tuning infrastructure when you deploy. You only need the part, the
packages that are required to make a prediction. So, then that's what was happening. So, we made,
when it was like, okay, let me generate this Docker file for you, it updated this, this lock
file and then it made this Docker file. So, this is what I just made by running that, by running
that function. So, it will, it's, it looked at exactly the version of R that I'm using right now.
It's going to use the public package manager to install binaries that are fast, which is good,
and then it knows exactly which software dependencies it needs, like system dependencies,
what do we need to install in there, and then it will use, it will use the, this rm.lock file that
I made, which I'll just show you what that looks like. This is a, this is a standardized format
for saying what packages you have, exactly what version of it do you have, where did you install
it from, and so forth. So, so it is going to use that lock file to install all those packages,
copy the plumber file over, and then this part is what happens when the,
when the Docker file is run. So, if we go over here, I'm not going to run this right now because
it takes a little while. This is probably the slowest part of anything that we're showing you
here. Building a Docker file can, can, the reason that it takes a little bit is it's setting up a
whole computational environment, like a whole little mini computer, and so it installs everything. So,
the keys to making it faster to build your Docker containers are be very careful about what you're
installing in there, that you're only installing what you need to, to keep them getting too bloated.
So, I'm going to go, so Docker is not a tool used in R or Python, but rather a tool you use
on the terminal. So, I'm going to go over here to the terminal. I, I'm gonna, I pre-built this,
so I use this exactly here. If you're looking at this bit, the reason I'm using that is that I,
the machine that I'm using right now is a, is a Mac M1, which is a different kind of chip,
like a different kind of chip than an Intel chip, and the most places you want to take a
Docker container don't use ARM chips, they use Intel chips. So, if you're going to build your
Docker container locally, and you're on like a newer Mac, one of the M1 or M2 chips, then you
want to use this so that the Docker container that you build can go somewhere else and be,
be deployed on that infrastructure. It also means we can, we can use the binaries that are
built by the package manager, which are built for Intel chips. So, I, so I did this ahead of time.
It took, I don't know, five minutes, something like that for me to build this, and, but now what
I can do is I can run it. So, I am going to, in this, is this where, let me, yeah, okay. So,
I'm going to run this here. Notice, let's talk about a couple of things here. I'm passing in
an environment file, a file of environment variables. So, the, whatever Docker container
you have, for this to work successfully, it has to be able to authenticate where the binary model
object is, where this thing, where the model is kept. So, if you look at the plumber file,
it's reading here, right? Like, from wherever the, like, where is that model? I need to get
to that model. So, a good way to do that is via environment variables. I'm also connecting the
port on the inside to the port on the outside, and then this is the name of the one that I'm running.
So, let's start this off. So, first it's telling me, hey, you're actually on ARM,
and this was built, like, to be a pretend computer. This may not be as fast as it could be otherwise,
which is very true. And now, now it's running. Now it's running. So, let me, let me
talk about what I can happen next. I can visit this in a browser. In fact, I will,
I will click on this so that it can, so that I can show you what that looks like here in a moment.
But I also can interact with it from R. So, right now the Docker container is running,
and so on the little, whoops, the little local port here on my computer, I can interact with
that directly from R. So, this is what it would look like if you were interacting with the model
from Python or R, but it is, it is somewhere else. It's not here locally. So, I create something
called a vetiver endpoint. So, notice that the, this right now is just looking at my own little
local computer, but this could be an endpoint anywhere. I can take that, that's, that's kind
of the point of Docker, is we take this thing, I build it, it is self-contained, and I can take
it where it needs to go. So, if this is, this could be on a cloud platform, this could be on
a server that I have somewhere. I've taken that Docker container, and I've moved it somewhere
that is useful to me. So, now let's say I have some, some new episodes. So, I'm gonna,
let's see what do those look like. I'm just kind of, I'm just generating some like
pretend Scooby-Doo episodes, and I can predict from my endpoint whether those episodes are real
or fake. And I pass the data, and what's happening here is that I, it looks like I'm just treating
that endpoint like it's a model in memory, like either in Python or R, this is set up so that
you just call predict, like a predict method or a predict function, the way that you're used to.
But what this is doing, actually, is it's taking your data that's like a data frame,
it's converting it to JSON, making an HTTP call, getting JSON back, and converting it back into
a nice data frame format that you have, so that you as a model developer can quickly iterate on
the, using the tools that you are most comfortable with, the tools that you like the best,
data frames, predicting, all that type of thing. Okay, so, so far we've talked about versioning
the model, we've talked about deploying the model, and now let's talk about monitoring the model.
So, what Vetiver will monitor, it has functions to help you monitor the statistical properties
of your model over time. So, to do that, you need new data that has labels. So, let's say we have,
let's say we're able to look into the future, and there are some new Scooby-Doo
episodes that are coming out starting in 2023, and I somehow happen to magically have the data now.
Notice, to monitor the statistical properties of how your model is doing, you have to have the,
the answers, the labels. That often means you have some kind of feedback loop that may be very
short, or maybe a little bit longer, but often, in many situations, we do have that feedback loop,
and it is what we need in order to monitor. That's sort of the gold standard for how are we
going to tell if our, if our, if our model is performing the way I want to. So, what we're
going to do is we're going to compute some metrics over a certain time aggregation. So, we have like
100 future Scooby-Doo episodes here, and we're going to aggregate it at that. What I want to
highlight is that models can use time in different ways. So, this particular model
actually uses the year as one of the features, and that happens sometimes. Sometimes your model
uses some kind of date time quantity as a feature. So, in this case, we're using the year, and that,
that is, you know, sometimes you do that. Monitoring always involves some kind of date
time quantity. So, we've got this year in a date aired variable, like a date aired column that we
have. So, that, that is not, that does not necessarily have to mean it's a feature in the
model, but it's the dimension along which we are monitoring. So, monitoring always involves us over
time collecting new validation data, you might call it, or monitoring data, you might call it,
that has the labels that we have so that we can, we can compute and monitor how our modeling is
doing over time. So, let's come over here. So, first, I'm just going to show you what it looks
like if I use augment. So, I can augment on a, using a Vetiver model, and what this does is it
lets me predict and bind columns together. So, we've got all this data that we had before,
and then a predicted class using this Vetiver model that I have in memory here. And once we
have this, where we have, you know, variables that we're interested in, like monitoring over
the predictions, then we can use this Vetiver compute metrics function here, which will
use, use, it supports sliding metrics, quite complex windows along which to
aggregate, and it will set that up for us to compute the metrics that we're interested in.
So, I'm going to say this is the variable over which I am monitoring. This is the aggregation
unit that I'm using. I want to aggregate at the year level, and then here are the things I'm going
to use for computing metrics, like what are the variables there. So, I'm going to, so here I now
have computed my metrics. So, I have for each year in this data set, 2023, 2024, 2025, I have
n is how many episodes there are. So, we've got, you know, 20 to 40 episodes, and then a metric
here. So, that's computed using the support that Vetiver has for the common use cases for
monitoring statistical metrics over time, the statistical performance of your model over time.
On the, like on the Python side, on the R side, we have support for plotting metrics,
for pinning metrics, if you want to use pins, which we recommend to store the aggregated metrics
over time. And so, we have just a default way of making a plot that probably will work for you,
but it is just data. So, here I show just making like a, like a custom, a custom kind of
graph visualization showing us how the metrics are doing over time. So, this is, so a design
consideration for Vetiver is that we provide functions that account for the most common
use cases, but all of these components are extensible for more custom needs, more advanced
use cases. So, if I, I'm like, oh, I don't want to use that, that default plot approach. I want
to make my own plots, and I can do that because this is all, you know, data here. So, here,
the, you know, it's like, oh, in this case, the accuracy looks pretty good, and kappa,
you know, estimates how well the results you are getting agree with what you would expect,
and takes into account the class imbalance. So, you know, in the 2023 and 2024, it looks like this,
it, you know, agrees about as much as we expect. In 2025, it's like, oh,
it's agreeing a little better, maybe, than we would have, than maybe we would have expected.
So, this is a monitoring example where we just have three monitoring points, but a,
if you are clicking through, I encourage you to see this more realistic monitoring example. I'm
going to show you what it looks like. So, I am, again, going to go to make a new R Markdown file.
I'm going to go to the templates, and I'm going to go down, and I'm going to pick this dashboard.
So, what this dashboard is, is it is a, again, like a template to get you 80 percent of the
way there for more complex model monitoring. It's, it is, so a vetiver dashboard is a special,
it builds on top of a flex dashboard in, on the R side, and it lets you use parameters to say,
where is my model, what is my model called, how do I want to, you know, like, I can style this,
because it builds on all, top of all the, you know, beautiful dashboarding that already exists
in R. And what, if we want to look here at what happens, the, we have a dashboard, so this
dashboard provides like a, like a opinionated sort of set of advice of how to set up a monitoring
dashboard that will keep track of your statistical performance of your model over time, plot
something, plot, you know, the metrics like you might expect in using functions that we provide,
and then also, it is, it is code that is generated, and so you can extend this in the way
that is appropriate to your use case. You can add in different plots, you can add in tables,
you can also, like, plop in that API visual documentation that you have there to be able
to share this as a artifact that people can understand, not, not only data practitioners
in your organization, but software engineering folks, IT folks can understand how the model
works and how to interact with it. All right, so I am going to go back to the slides
and share this, and so this, this is the Docker file that is running. This is that,
so I can actually visit in the Docker file in a browser as well, but I'll go back over to
these slides. So, so in these demos, what we did was we started with Python, and then we went to R,
and we showed you how to, how to walk through these different kinds of MLOps tasks. So,
I hope that what this did was show you that, that MLOps doesn't have to be,
there are many tools out there, but at its core, the, what MLOps is, is a set of practices
that you can learn and you can adopt that deploy and maintain the, the models that you build
in production, which remember we said was like in a different computational environment where
it's going to interact with different parts of your infrastructure, and that the set of practices
that are here are to set you up so that your models that you have are, are reliable, and that
you're, you're efficient in these practices without, that they work well for you to keep this, this,
these systems up and running in a reliable and an efficient way. So, as a, as a wrap-up, so,
there's a lot of tools out there that do a lot of different kinds of things.
So, what Vetiver does is it allows you to bring the, your, your existing modeling
preferences and how, how you like to build models, and it provides support for you to version
your model in a robust way so that you can identify which versions of models are in use at
any given time so that you can do ad hoc analyses, get to previous versions without rolling back
whole deployment environments. Speaking of which, Vetiver provides support for you to deploy
your model, say, using, using something like push button or what single functions to deploy
and connect or using Docker to go to cloud platforms or servers of your own. And Vetiver
provides support for you to monitor your models to, to understand, record, summarize, and visualize
the statistical properties of your model over time. And so, Vetiver is built from the ground
up to work for, for both R and Python models. This means it's a really good fit for bilingual
data science teams where people use R or Python, use both R and Python in those teams. Or even if
you as an individual sometimes reach for R and sometimes reach for Python when you're building
statistical machine learning models, that means Vetiver is a good fit because you, you use the
same approach for both and you can support your team, either it can be supported in making the
best choices for them individually or you yourself, you know, can be like, ah, well, I can train my
model however I want and then I will be able to deploy it in a way that makes sense in my
organization and is consistent no matter what I use to deploy the model. So we've got our last,
our last poll on Slido. So if you're, if you're on Slido and you click over to the polls tab,
you can see this pop up and we're, we're really interested in what kinds of models you often use.
So this has overlap maybe with the question about software, but what we're, what we're interested
in here is more like, do you use a lot of deep learning models? Do you use a lot of tree-based
models? You use, you know, are you currently spending a lot of time, you know, using
GAMs or something like that? Like what kind of models do you often use? So Vetiver right now
has support for, I would say on the order of now, like a dozen different kinds of models,
including all of scikit-learn, all of tidy models, like a lot of, a lot of the big ones,
but we certainly are interested in what are the common use cases that you have or that you want
to pursue more and to make sure we are supporting people, people's most common use cases there.
So, so yes, I said this already. So Vetiver works on RStudio's pro products like Connect
and then also works in a, you know, public or private cloud or server using, using Docker.
So we are super excited about having gotten to share this with you today, but we encourage you
if you want to get started with this to learn more. So the first place we recommend that you
look is the, our documentation site at vetiver.rstudio.com. So this is, this is a bilingual
documentation site where you can go to learn about R and, or Python together. I encourage
you to check out Isabel's talk from RStudioConf this past summer. It's the one that's called
demystifying MLOps. If you're looking at the slides yourself and locally, you can just click
that link and I'll take it right to you. And I, this one is fun. It's instead of Scooby-Doo,
it's all about cookies. I'm using cookies and baking as a, as, as a illustration to understand
what MLOps is. If you want to see more about how to use Docker, especially if you're newer to using
Docker, I did a recent screencast on how to deploy a model with Docker. And then also there are some
really great end-to-end demos from, from our, the solutions engineering team at RStudio. And there's,
there's one for R and one for Python. It uses the same kind of data on bike shares and how to
predict how many bikes will be, are used in different situations. And what is great about
those is it is, it is really end-to-end. They're, they're fairly extensive and they show you how to
go from how to, how to retrain a model on a schedule, how to integrate a model into an
interactive shiny app so that you can, so it's really end-to-end, which is a great way to look
at that. And with that, I will stop sharing and we will see if we can use the rest of our time to
answer a few questions. Awesome. Thank you so much, Julia and Isabel. I see a lot of
clapping and saying great job in the chat. Awesome work. A lot of people really excited about diving
into this. There are also a ton of questions on both Slido and through YouTube here. So
if you don't mind me throwing a lot of these at you, I'd love to jump in. Let's do this.
Awesome. So I see, I see Stefan, hi Stefan, asked a question on YouTube. Can you make
that ever refuse to make predictions that are outside your applicability domain?
So this would be an example of, of like an advanced use case that we kind of alluded to.
So the, the, the auto-generated like plumber files have like the predict endpoint,
but you can write functions in there and you can add other endpoints that, that adjust or change,
right? Like what is served at an endpoint or might be, what may be served at another endpoint.
So some examples of things that we know people can use this for and that fit people's use cases are,
for example, like an explainability score, like, like let's serve a prediction. Let's serve an,
a, an explainability score along with that prediction. And, and the other one would be
something like an applicability score. So you can either serve the applicability score,
or you can change, like write a function to change what is served so that you check it
and then do or do not serve it. So the way you would go about doing that would be
realizing like, okay, this is a more advanced use case. I am going to need to go into that
plumber file and, and adjust it or on the Python side into that app.py and be able to
write, write a function that will be a handler effectively. But we have support for all that
and testing that it works and all that type of thing. Awesome. Thank you. I see this is one of
the most upvoted questions on Slido. And sorry, it makes me split it up in two lines here.
Can you deploy models using Docker and cloud environments such as AWS?
Can you pass custom Docker images that fit your organization's security architecture?
Isabelle, do you want to answer that one? Or? Yeah, I can grab that one. The short answer is
yes. The Docker files that Bedford generates are just code. So any customization that you need to
put in there to fit that organization security, if they have custom Docker images, you can update
all of that in the Docker file itself. And you can take Docker files to cloud environments such as
AWS, or GCP or Azure. Yeah, as an example, like one thing that is currently in a PR
on the R side for whatever is like specific support for deploying as a lambda function.
And so what the reason I bring this up is because it's like it's a special kind of Docker
container, like you have to add a runtime and stuff like that, versus starting with the like
a base image that's like Python or base images are it's like a special, you know, base image for
lambda functions. And so because we have that we're taking this approach that is generate code
account for this use case, and then let it be extensible, we actually can even
support some of these more extensible things directly in the software.
Great, thank you. Another question, I'm going to go back and forth between YouTube and Slido here.
One question from Tony was, this may be more of a plumber question, but how do you make the
predictions directly in the browser? Is there a particular syntax to pass arguments via the URL?
So if this is a question about the interactive documentation that we showed, and how we're like,
we're directly interacting in a browser with the models, you know, things are going pass in,
in the post request, and then we're seeing what's coming back. That's because of the open API
specification. So vetiver in the Python side and the R side, creates model aware model appropriate
open API specifications, so that when you have your API created via under the hood fast API on
the Python side or plumber on the R side, you're getting something that is aware of the domain
that you're working in. So the making predictions directly in the browser like we showed is because
of the customization of the open API specification that vetiver provides on both sides.
Thank you. Another question on Slido is, is there an ebook for vetiver, similar to
the one we have for tidy models? Isabel, you want to answer that?
There is not. There are a lot of great resources out there for mlops in general. We just had kind
of like an internal book club and we went through chip one's designing ml application,
I think is the name of it. So there are great books out there for mlops but not anything that
is vetiver specific. I do think that the set of resources like documentation that we have
is getting pretty robust. So this is something that's a priority for us, you know, this fall
and moving forward to get even more documentation, especially for advanced use cases. But
I do think that although not probably like a whole book worth of content, what we have at
vetiver.rstudio.com, really, really, I'm proud of it. I think it gets you pretty far on the path.
Awesome. Isabel, would you be able to share those, the links to those other books in like
the private chat and I can put them with the recording too? Perfect. I can do that. Awesome.
Let's see. Another question over on YouTube
is from Marlene. When initially deploying your ML model, how does vetiver handle data that
does not meet the specs of the training data? Do you want to take that one, Isabel?
I can start with if there is an error that occurs, there is really nice error handling
that kind of specifically points you to exactly what is giving you this error and what it should
be instead that really leans on that initial P type. So if you're passing in a date that looks
more like a string or something like that, vetiver will point to it and say, hey,
this is a string, but we think it should be a date or from your P type, it should be a date.
Yeah. And yeah, that's exactly right. And on our side, if we, do you want to quickly let me share
my screen again? So notice if I predict with good data, I get stuff back. But what if I predict with
bad data? Like, let's say I only have a year erred. Like I'm missing the other thing. I'll
say the year erred is 1990 like that. It is going to try to predict and say, oh, I should have made
that go with debug equals true. Okay. So that's actually a really good thing to talk about very
briefly is it will fail to predict. And there's an option where you set up your models. You can
allow debugging errors to come through. It's turned off by default because it can
provide information about your training data when it returns errors. And in some cases,
that is a privacy issue. But in some cases, you're fine with it and you'd rather have the better
errors. So you have a little bit of a choice there between I have really tight privacy
constraints around my training data. I need to make sure nothing is leaked through, like,
none of that information is leaked. Or you can say, okay, I would like to have more informative
errors that are going to help me see what's going on. So depending on how that goes one way or the
other, you can get those helpful errors. Thank you. Another Slido question was,
let's see. Plumber also has logging filters. Is there any work being done in Bediver to
publish a default logger alongside new models being deployed for usage monitoring?
This is something I think will be interesting for us to look into more detail. We don't have
a default logger currently here. You can extend it in the way that you extend other plumber
functions. Part of this is because we have been focused on, like, statistical modeling. I'm
assuming this is, like, those logging filters that will log, here is what the call was,
here is the result that you got, here is, like, somebody made a call with this in their post
data, and here is what we did, we sent back. So right now, you can add those to any plumber
file that you have. But we don't have a default one that's model aware. So that might be kind of
good for us to look into. I see James asked a question over on Slido. JSON and APIs can be
foreign to those new to model deployment or those with no web development experience.
Do you have any advice or resources to share? I can share some more links via this private chat.
But I think there are some really good articles. I know that and I think it's best to be a link
for this one. But I think at its core, JSON is just kind of a data structure. And I think people
get quite scared of it. But it kind of looks like a data frame if you find a simple JSON
file and it just expands from there. And if you kind of can contextualize APIs as a gateway,
that's a good place to start as well. It hangs out independently of everything else.
But different applications will talk to it. So, we're talking to our API that has a model and then
we're getting back our prediction. But on the other side, maybe an application has a standardized
way to talk to this API to get back predictions or give them to customers in a different scenario.
But there is a lot of great resources online as well that we can share links to.
Perfect. Yeah. And just to remind everyone as well, the recording for this meetup will be
shared at the exact same YouTube link that you watched that and will be made available
right away. But we can also share those resources in the recording details too.
Okay. Question on YouTube. Hello. Does it integrate somehow with MLflow?
So, if you're interested in thinking about, like, should I choose MLflow or should I choose
Vetiver? One thing to, like, a main difference between MLflow and Vetiver is that Vetiver
is more flexible about what you bring to the deployment process and MLflow has more
support for – because it has more support for experiment tracking,
it wants you to kind of enter into MLflow earlier. However, it is true that you can
use these pieces somewhat composably. And so, you can take the pieces from, you know,
different ecosystems that – and get them to work together in a way that's most appropriate for you.
So, Isabel, do you want to add anything to that? Yeah. I think my favorite part about this
question is, like, open source is the face dial. You can take the experiment tracking that MLflow
has invested a lot of time and effort into and then you can pair it with Vetiver's deployment
if you prefer that. Maybe it's easier to make, like, predictions from an endpoint or it's
faster to go from model to API there. So, I think it pieces together quite nicely and you can
choose the pieces that work best for you and your organization and use them in conjunction with each
other. I think something that we're really excited about with Vetiver is the model to API time is,
like, two lines of code to get a really basic API running. So, that is something that we have
spent a lot of time to make sure it's a great experience and that is a little bit different
from MLflow. Thank you. I see Marcos asked a question over on Slido. Are there plans to
handle more complex situations where the request needs augmentation? So, for example, the user
passes in only the episode title and the server looks up year and IMDB rating? Yeah. So, in either
so, say you wanted to do that this way. You might want to instead of using the Vetiver API in that
case, you might want to, you know, set up a little bit of a fast API or a plumber API and then
you would write functions that did that look up and then you would call the predict function on
the Vetiver model. So, you'd probably, like, read the model from where it is, write code that,
like, does the lookup, brings in the data, and then call predict. I can see, like, let's imagine
this is a Shiny app, either written in Python or R. The code of the Shiny app would read the model
from where you have it versioned and stored and then you would have other code that would
take, say, the user input, look up what you need, and then call predict on it. So, this, again,
is an example of how these pieces are composable and extensible to other use cases. Why you
probably wouldn't use the Vetiver API for this is that the Vetiver API is built to strongly care
about the data that's being posted and that the data that is being posted to the API matches
the features of the model. So, that's, like, a strong assumption of the Vetiver API is that
what's getting posted in the data needs to match the features.
Great. Thank you. Somebody else asked anonymously,
can these demo files be made available to use as references?
Yes, we have. The website is up and posted. I was actually presenting from the website itself.
I think, Rachel, you have a short link for that one.
Yes. Just trying to go grab it on the screen real quick. Here we go.
That link is up. It is running. We'd love to have other people put their hands on our material and
play around with Vetiver. I want to make sure this is the right link.
Yep, that's the right link. And so, if you click on – so, there's kind of a main page,
and then if you look up at the top on the right, there are both slides and demos. So,
you can see all the material that we looked at here today, together.
And I can see Isabel backstage pulling that up, too, if you wanted to show it.
Yes. Let me –
So, this is the website. You can check out the slides here. You can download the PDF
or view them in a new window. And then the demos
are available as Quarto files for both Python and R.
Awesome. And if someone from the RStudio team wants to help with some of these links,
you can copy them over into the YouTube chat for people, too. I wasn't going to do that,
but I'm bad at multitasking right now. Actually, I think we should ask this question, too. For
people who aren't familiar with REST APIs, what is a REST API, and is there a part of
RStudio professional products that fulfill this? I am probably not going to give, like,
a good technical definition of what a REST API is, but I am going to repeat what Isabel said,
where it's, like, you have a computer somewhere, and it is not connected to your computer. And
on that other machine, you have an API, which means, like, it's a service that will return
things. Like, sometimes I think of them kind of like functions, where it's, like, either – like,
I can call it. I can call it, and it's going to send something back over to me. So, maybe it's
something where I, like, I call it with data. Like, that's usually – that's called a post
endpoint. Like, I post things over to that service, and then it's going to return something
back to me that's different, depending on what I posted. Sometimes there are endpoints that are
get endpoints, where you just say, hey, hey, and then it will give you something. There's,
you know, more complex things involved here, like query parameters, where you can say to that
service, I actually want my query to be slightly like this, you know, and you can change things
via query parameters. But I think the most important thing to think about a REST or RESTful
API is that it is a way to set up a service that can interact via HTTP calls to other computers,
say, like your local computer or another part of your IT infrastructure. So, the RStudio Pro
product that supports deploying APIs in Python or R is RStudio Connect. So, Connect can be used
to deploy Python APIs, like via FastAPI, Flask, that ever builds on top of FastAPI, and in the
R side, Plumber APIs. Do you want to add anything to that, Isabel? That was a very fuzzy, non-technical
definition of what a REST API is. No, I think that was a great start. It really
is just a way to, like, for people or machines to connect applications, whatever an application is,
which is another whole discussion, but to connect these together in some sort of standardized way,
which is through the open API specifications, which you don't need to know anything about if
you're just learning about REST APIs. I wouldn't jump off that diving board quite yet.
There was a quick follow-up question in Slido to that answer about Connect, and someone asked,
is there an RStudio Connect server demo where I could test whatever?
So, we have a couple of, like, URLs we can share that have public-facing APIs that you can look at
and or call via, you know, cURL or from R or Python, so we can get those URLs to share with
you. So, Rachel, if someone was actually interested in, like, trying to test out Connect for their own
org, what would they do? Yes, so you can definitely test out Connect for your organization as well,
and I could put the link in the chat to help set up a call with our team so they learn more about
your use case and talk to you about what you're trying to do, and I'll put that in the YouTube
chat, but also, if you're curious if your org is already using our products and you might not know
that you have them, I'm always happy to help connect you with your account team too, so I can
even put my LinkedIn in the chat as well if you just want to reach out on there as well.
Let's see. There was a question I saw was upvoted a few times about GitHub Actions. Let's see.
I assume this works within a GitHub Action workflow, setting up the Plumber or FastAPI
and creating the Dockerfile, then using these to build in Action?
Well, so certain parts of this, we already run in GitHub Actions in various ways, either through CI
or building the docs that we build, so yes, absolutely. Absolutely, this is something that
you can run in GitHub Actions, and so there are people who use GitHub Actions kind of as their
orchestrator, like for their MLOps tools, where you say, okay, let's kick off an action to
train the model, and then that will say, maybe in that script, it also pins the model once it's
trained, and then you can kick off a script to, say, build a Docker container and then take that
artifact, although those get pretty big. I think it'd be better to write a Dockerfile,
and then if you were going to, say, use AWS or GCP, you take that Dockerfile and then build it
using the container building service of your cloud platform of choice and put it in your registry
where it goes. Awesome. I know we're getting to about 15 minutes past the top of the hour.
Just wanted to check, how many more questions can I throw at you right now?
A couple more. Yeah. Okay, awesome. I'm not sure if you addressed this,
but it was a question on YouTube. Do you need to make a Dockerfile if you're deploying to Connect?
Nope. Just the one-liner will get you on the Python or R side from your local environment
to Connect. Awesome. Thank you. Another anonymous question was, for model monitoring,
can you define custom metrics instead of predefined metrics? So, I'll answer this for
the R side, and then, Isabella, you can answer it for the Python side. So, yes. So, the way to do
that on the R side is to create a yardstick metric. So, custom metrics in yardstick involve
writing a function and then calling the wrapper, and then, all the infrastructure will know,
ah, this is a metric that I need to aggregate at the same interval that I'm doing all the
other metrics. So, I actually have a blog post about how to write a yardstick custom metric.
You can take a look for that. It's just like writing a little function and wrapping it in this
wrapper. So, it's not too straightforward. And we know, you know, we know people who like
that ability to extend with custom metrics is important in many organizations because you want
to actually, say, have a metric that has specific, you know, business logic in it or something like
that, and you want to be able to optimize and or monitor with that directly. Isabella, you want to
talk about it for Python? Yeah. On the Python side, you can write any function as long as it has a,
like, a why true column. So, the truth and a predicted value. It will compare those to the
whatever metric you are creating and return back the value. So, you are able to use custom
metrics there as well. Awesome. Another question. Can we deploy a Shiny app with Vetiver?
You sure can. The link at the end of the slides with the end-to-end solutions engineering
demo that Julie had shared, that is a bike share app that uses Shiny and Vetiver together. So,
if you are interested in just clicking around and seeing what it looks like,
you can hop over to those demo repos and check it out.
Awesome. I was trying to copy that link over real quick to post
on YouTube as well. I will put that there in just a second.
Let me go through to see what we may have missed.
Okay. A few questions on Slido. I know we won't get to everything,
but I can definitely share those all with you, Julia and Isabel.
One says – okay. Anonymous question that just came in. Most of our models have an ID
in the recipe step, which seems to fail in predictions. With Vetiver,
is it best to remove non-predictor ID columns?
So, there have been some updates. So, this person is using tidy models with recipes,
and they have something in their input that is not a predictor that they keep around,
maybe for diagnosing problems or analyzing results. It's something you don't want to
use for prediction, but that you want to have and keep in the datasets. So,
I think there's a couple ways you approach this. One is you require it for the input.
You say, I actually want – when this model is in production, I want that ID,
and I'm going to record it and use it for monitoring or something like that.
So, then you make a – I think that is what will work by default. The other option is you,
when you go to train a final model, like, say, in the tidy model sense, you've done lots of
tuning, and then it's time to do last fits. You take the ID out, and you retrain it at that point.
You train it, not retrain it. Train it without the ID, because you're not going to use it
in production. The other option is to pass in custom input data prototype. And so, here,
when you create that Vetiver deployable model object, there's a number of optional arguments.
One of them is, hey, what is the input data prototype that I'm going to check against?
And you can go into your workflow and pull out the mold and just get the predictors,
and then pass that in, and then that is another way. So, the default behavior,
it kind of assumes you have predictors. You're going to end up with a prediction.
But if you have a slightly more complex use case, there's these different ways,
and you can choose what works best for you.
Okay. Two more questions, and then I will let you go. Thank you so much for answering all these.
One from Javier on YouTube was, can you please confirm if the performance metrics are customizable
for the metrics that were displayed on the Vetiver HTML export?
Yes. So, on the R side, it is one of the arguments to the compute metrics. The default
is to use a default set of metrics, but you can use – you know, you can change it. You can
write your own custom metrics function. So, it is one of the arguments that goes in there,
is you need a metric set function. So, on the – I think we already said this,
but maybe, Isabel, just to confirm. Yep. On the Python side, it also is
called metric set, and then you'll pass in a list of – I normally do scikit-learn metrics,
but again, if it has the Y true and Y predicted columns,
that is what this function is using to make your metric output.
Great. One other question that came in a few minutes ago on Slido is,
is Vetiver for Python as complete as it is for R?
That's a great question. Do you want to start, Isabel?
Yeah, of course. So, I would say it is pretty darn close. We don't – so, we think – the
Python side does not have the template for the dashboard yet, but I think everything you saw
today was kind of feature parity between the two languages. I don't think we expect to, like,
be super strict with everything that's in R is in Python, because these two demographics have
different needs, but we're going to kind of see where the community takes us, I guess, and see
what people are using and really want to help them with their MLOps workflows in each language,
respectively. Yeah, I think that's right on. I mean, I think if you're talking about, like,
is coverage as complete, I think probably so. Like, depending on – like, if you were going
to ask what do people want to use in Python, like, the coverage is about as complete in Python as
R. Everything we showed you today, the coverage is about as complete. There are some things that,
because the existing machine learning infrastructure is different, you know, in the two – like,
the model development infrastructure is a little different, that things do end up slightly
different. And we don't – we want these to feel consistent and to make – and, like, that someone
who is – wants to collaborate with you as a model developer, it basically is consistent, like,
what you're doing in one side versus the other. But we also want these to feel native. Like,
if you are some – we don't want, like, a high goal – like, a high priority, actually, for us is that
the Python implementation, the implementation, someone doesn't come to it and is like,
why does this look like I'm writing R code? Like, we do not want that to be the feeling
that anyone has on either side, right? So, we want it to be very native feeling on both sides.
Okay. Well, thank you so much, Julia and Isabel. This was amazing and so great to see all the
questions from you all, too. I'm going to put the meetup slides and documentation up there
just in case you missed that. But again, the meetup was recorded, so it will be available
at the same exact YouTube link that you watched from right as we end the stream.
But if you have further questions, we'd love to hear from you, love to hear your feedback as well.
I did just want to remind people we have these meetups every Tuesday at 12 eastern time.
And so, we would love to see you back. Thank you again for joining. Julia and Isabel,
you want to add anything? I'll just say thank you for coming and for your great questions.
Thank you all. It was great to see everyone online.
Thank you. And I know there were a few questions about how to evaluate RStudio's professional
tools as well. So, I just wanted to share this link here as well. So, if you do ever want to
chat about products like RStudio Connect, you can use that link. Or if you're ever just curious
if anyone from your team is already using our tools and you want to reach out to me very
informally, feel free to just reach out to me on LinkedIn as well. And I'd be happy to
help connect you. Thank you all so much. Have a great rest of the day. Bye, everybody.